
Copyright (c) 2016 for the D-binding, Carsten Blüggel.

The MIT License (MIT):
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tecgraf Library License

The Tecgraf products under this license are: IUP, CD and IM.

All the products under this license are free software: they can be used for both academic and commercial purposes at absolutely no cost. There are no paperwork, no royalties, no GNU-like "copyleft" restrictions, either. Just download and use it. They are licensed under the terms of the MIT license reproduced below, and so are compatible with GPL and also qualifies as Open Source software. They are not in the public domain, PUC-Rio keeps their copyright. The legal details are below. 

The spirit of this license is that you are free to use the libraries for any purpose at no cost without having to ask us. The only requirement is that if you do use them, then you should give us credit by including the copyright notice below somewhere in your product or its documentation. A nice, but optional, way to give us further credit is to include a Tecgraf logo and a link to our site in a web page for your product. 

The libraries are designed, implemented and maintained by a team at Tecgraf/PUC-Rio in Brazil. The implementation is not derived from licensed software. The library was developed by request of Petrobras. Petrobras permits Tecgraf to distribute the library under the conditions here presented.

----------------------------------------

Copyright © 1994-2015 Tecgraf/PUC-Rio.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
